W-16993325-pce4-upgrade-kt (#345)
mulesoft/docs-private-cloud: modules/ROOT/pages/upgrade.adoc

= Upgrading Anypoint Platform PCE v3.2.3 to v4.0.0
ifndef::env-site,env-github[]
include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]

[NOTE]

> If your Anypoint Platform PCE version is earlier than version 3.2.3, you must first upgrade to version 3.2.3 and then upgrade to version 4.0. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If your Anypoint Platform PCE version is earlier than version 3.2.3, upgrade to version 3.2.3 first and then upgrade to version 4.0. 
```

> Upgrading Anypoint Platform Private Cloud Edition version 3.2.3 to version 4.0, consist of the following process:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To upgrade Anypoint Platform Private Cloud Edition version 3.2.3 to version 4.0:
```

. Verify your infrastructure environment. +
Before you upgrade to version 4.0, your infrastructure team must verify that your working installation meets any additional requirements described in xref:install-checklist.adoc[Anypoint PCE Prerequisites].
. Contact MuleSoft Professional Services. +
After you verify your infrastructure is correctly set up, contact MuleSoft Professional Services to assist you with upgrading Anypoint Platform PCE.
. Update your DNS.
. Create a backup of Anypoint Platform PCE v3.2.3.
. Install Anypoint Platform PCE v4.0.
. Perform a system restore.
. Perform post-upgrade configurations.

[[update-dns]]
== Update your DNS
As an Anypoint Platform PCE user, you can access Anypoint Platform UI via DNS or directly via a load balancer.

If you access via DNS, follow the steps to xref:upgrade.adoc#create-backup[create a backup].

If you access via a load balancer, update your DNS following these steps: 

> . In Amazon Route53, create a new record to update the load balancer to point to a DNS, an example DNS for PCE 3.x is `pce3.mulesoft.com`. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. In Amazon Route53, create a new record to update the load balancer to point to a DNS. An example DNS for PCE 3.x is `pce3.mulesoft.com`. 
```

. Access Anypoint Platform and select *Access Management*.
. Select *DNS/IP*.
. For *Platform DNS/IP*, enter the DNS address where you are hosting the platform.
+
image::pce4-access-management.png["Platform DNS/IP field to enter DNS address in Access Management UI"]
+
[start=5]
. Click *Save*.
. Access Anypoint Platform PCE UI via DNS to ensure the login is successful. 

> . In your Anypoint Platform PCE v3.2.3 cluster, scale down `nginx-wss-service`` to 0 replicas. After 5 minutes, scale it back to 3 replicas.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. In your Anypoint Platform PCE v3.2.3 cluster, scale down `nginx-wss-service` to 0 replicas. After 5 minutes, scale it up to 3 replicas.
```

[[create-backup]]
== Create a Backup
To create a backup for upgrading Anypoint Platform PCE 3.2.3 to 4.0, follow these steps:

. Run the following command to patch the Anypoint Platform PCE 3.2.4 cluster ConfigMap to include ignored secrets and buckets: 
+
`kubectl apply -f backup-restore-config(1).yaml`
+
[start=2]

> . Generate a backup using `gravity backup`: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Run the following command to generate a backup: 
```

+
`gravity backup /var/lib/gravity/planet/share/backup-3x-dd-mm-yy.tar.gz`
+
. Copy all the files from the NFS server of your Anypoint Platform PCE v3.2.3 cluster over to the NFS server of your Anypoint Platform PCE v4.0 cluster.

. Run the following commands to copy the gravity backup file to the Anypoint Platform PCE v4.0 NFS server:
+
----
mkdir nfs_mount_folder 
mount ${nfsServer}/${nfsPath} nfs_mount_folder
cp backup-3x-dd-mm-yy.tar.gz nfs_mount_folder/
----
+
Ensure the backup is copied to the NFS server so you can then perform a system restore.

== Install Anypoint Platform PCE v4.0

> After you complete the backup, the MuleSoft Professional Services team will assist you and provide you the steps to xref:install-workflow.adoc[install Anypoint Platform PCE v4.0].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After you complete the backup, the MuleSoft Professional Services team will assist you with xref:install-workflow.adoc[installing Anypoint Platform PCE v4.0].
```

[NOTE]
After the installation is complete don’t add data or new Mule apps in your Anypoint Platform PCE v4.0 environment.

== Perform a System Restore

> To complete the upgrade, you must perform a system restore by following these steps:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To complete the upgrade, perform a system restore by following these steps:
```

. Temporarily set `skip-version-check` to `true` in your Anypoint Platform PCE v4.0 environment:

> .. Edit the ConfigMap by running `kubectl edit cm backup-restore-config`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. Edit the ConfigMap by running `kubectl edit cm backup-restore-config`.
```

.. Set `skip-version-check` to `true`.

. Perform the restore to v4.0 using the API:
+
----
curl -k https://${platformDns}/platform/restore \
-X POST \ -H "Authorization: Bearer $token" \
-H "Content-Type:application/json" \
-d "{\"nfs-server\": \"${nfsServer}\", \
\"nfs-path\": \"${nfsPath}\", \
\"backup-file-name\": \"backup-3x-dd-mm-yy.tar.gz\" }"
----
+
Ensure the restore is successful by checking the restore logs. All the services and pods should be up and running successfully. 

[start=3]

> . After the restore is complete from Anypoint Platform PCE v3.2.3 to v4.0 change back `skip-version-check` to `false`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. After the restore from Anypoint Platform PCE v3.2.3 to v4.0 is complete, change back `skip-version-check` to `false`:
```

> .. Edit the ConfigMap by running `kubectl edit cm backup-restore-config`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. Edit the ConfigMap by running `kubectl edit cm backup-restore-config`.
```

.. Set `skip-version-check` to `false`. +

> This ensures that there will be no blockling to a possible backup and restore process in the future. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This ensures there's no blocker for a possible backup and restore process in the future. 
```

[start=4]
. On the new Anypoint Platform PCE v4.0 environment, update the xref:upgrade.adoc#update-dns[previously created DNS] to point to the v4.0 load balancer in AWS route-53.

. On the new Anypoint Platform PCE v4.0 cluster, update the DNS configuration in *Access Management* through the API (`pce3.mulesoft.com`):
+
----
curl --location --request PUT 'https://swethas4a-600577b350bc4163.elb.us-west-2.amazonaws.com/platform/configuration/dns' \
--header 'Authorization: Bearer token' \
--header 'Content-Type: application/json' \
--data-raw '{"platform-dns":"test.upgrade1.pce.mulesoft.com"}'
----
+
[start=6]
. In your Anypoint Platform PCE v3.2.3 cluster, scale down `nginx-wss-service` to 0 replicas. 
. Ensure the login to Anypoint Platform PCE v4.0 works with the updated DNS.

== Perform Post-Upgrade Configurations

> After you complete the upgrade, you can perform the following configurations:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After you complete the upgrade, you can:
```
